---
title: S3
order: 0
status: published
---
### S3
Data connector to source data from S3.

#### Account Parameters
<Expandable title="name" type="str">
A name to identify the source. The name should be unique across all Fennel sources.
</Expandable>

<Expandable title="aws_access_key_id" type="Optional[str]" defaultVal="None">
AWS Access Key ID. This field is not required if role-based access is used or if
the bucket is public.
</Expandable>

<Expandable title="aws_secrete_access_key" type="Optional[str]" defaultVal="None">
AWS Secret Access Key. This field is not required if role-based access is used 
or if the bucket is public.
</Expandable>


#### Bucket Parameters
<Expandable title="bucket" type="str">
The name of the S3 bucket where the data files exist.
</Expandable>

<Expandable title="prefix" type="Optional[str]" defaultVal="None">
The prefix of the bucket (as relative path within bucket) where the data files
exist. For instance, `some-folder/` or `A/B/C` are all valid prefixes. Prefix
can not have any wildcard characters.

Exactly one of `prefix` or `path` must be provided.
</Expandable>

<Expandable title="path" type="Optional[str]" defaultVal="None">
A `/` delimited path (relative to the bucket) describing the objects to be 
ingested. The valid path parts are:
- static string of alphanumeric characters, underscores, hyphens or dots.
- `*` wild card - this must be the entire path part: `*/*` is valid but `foo*/` is not.
- string with a [strftime format specifier](https://docs.python.org/3/library/datetime.html#strftime-and-strptime-format-codes) (e.g `yyyymmdd=%Y%m%d`)

If you have a large volume of data or objects and your bucket is time partitioned,
it's highly recommended to include details of time partitioning in your path instead
of providing `*` - Fennel can use this information to optimize the ingestion.

For example, if your bucket has the structure `orders/{country}/date={date}/store={store}/{file}.json`, provide the path `orders/*/date=%Y%m%d/*/*`

Exactly one of `prefix` or `path` must be provided.
</Expandable>

<Expandable title="format" type="str" defaultVal="csv">
The format of the files you'd like to ingest. Valid values are "csv", "parquet", 
"json", ["delta"](/api-reference/sources/deltalake) or ["hudi"](/api-reference/sources/hudi).
</Expandable>

<Expandable title="delimiter" type="Optional[str]" defaultVal=",">
The character delimiting individual cells in the CSV data - only relevant when
format is `CSV`, otherwise it's ignored.

The default value is `","` can be overridden by any other 1-character string. For 
example, to use tab-delimited data enter `"\t"`.  
</Expandable>

<Expandable title="spread" type="Optional[Duration]" defaultVal="None">
Relevant only when using `path` with strftime specifiers.

To do incremental ingestion of data from time partitioned S3 bucket, Fennel needs
to know what time ranges may be present in any given partition. While not common,
sometimes the the timestamp field used to time-partition data in your S3 may be 
different from the field that you want to be the "official" timestamp field of
the Fennel dataset.

In such cases, it's possible that a bucket corresponding to say `month=01` 
contains rows where value of the timestamp field is outside of `month=01`.

`spread` is a measure of how wide this gap can be. More formally, `spread` 
indicates the maximum difference between the partition interval and
the value of the timestamp field for data in that partition. A `None` value indicates no spread, 
which is the case when the partitioning scheme uses the same timestamp values as the dataset's 
`timestamp` column. `spread` is specified using Fennel's [Duration type](/api-reference/data-types/duration).

Examples:
- Given a path `txns/date=20240207/hh=06/` and `spread=None`, fennel expects all 
 data under this path to have timestamp between `2024-02-07 06:00:00` and `2024-02-07 07:00:00`
- Given a path `txns/date=20240207/hh=06/` and `spread="3d"`, fennel expects all data under
this path to have a timestamp between `2024-02-04 06:00:00` and `2024-02-10 07:00:00`
- Given a path `txns/date=20240207/` and `spread="6h"`, fennel expects all data under
this path to have a timestamp between `2024-02-06 18:00:00` and `2024-02-08 06:00:00`
</Expandable>

<pre snippet="api-reference/sources/s3#s3_prefix"
    status="success" message="S3 ingestion via prefix">
</pre>
<pre snippet="api-reference/sources/s3#s3_path"
    status="success" message="S3 ingestion via path">
</pre>

#### Errors
<Expandable title="Connectivity or authentication errors">
Fennel server try to do some lightweight operations on the bucket during the commit
operation - all connectivity or authentication related errors should be caught
during the commit itself.

Note: Mock client can not talk to any external data source and hence is unable to
do this validation at commit time.
</Expandable>

<Expandable title="Schema mismatch errors">
Schema validity of data in S3 can only be checked at runtime. Any rows that 
can not be parsed are rejected. Please keep an eye on the 'Errors' tab of 
Fennel console after initiating any data sync.
</Expandable>

#### Enabling IAM Access
Fennel creates a role with name prefixed by `FennelDataAccessRole-` in 
your AWS account for role-based access. In order to use IAM access for s3, please
ensure that this role has access to read and do list files on the buckets of 
interest. 

With that ready, simply don't specify `aws_access_key_id` and 
`aws_secret_access_key` and Fennel will automatically fall back to IAM based 
access.


:::info
Fennel uses  `file_last_modified` property exported by S3 to track what data has 
been seen so far and hence a cursor field doesn't need to be specified.
:::

