---
title: S3
order: 0
status: published
---
### S3
Data connector to sink data to S3.

#### Account Parameters
<Expandable title="name" type="str">
A name to identify the sink. The name should be unique across all Fennel connectors.
</Expandable>

<Expandable title="aws_access_key_id" type="Optional[str]" defaultVal="None">
AWS Access Key ID. This field is not required if role-based access is used or if
the bucket is public.
</Expandable>

<Expandable title="aws_secrete_access_key" type="Optional[str]" defaultVal="None">
AWS Secret Access Key. This field is not required if role-based access is used 
or if the bucket is public.
</Expandable>

<Expandable title="role_arn" type="Optional[str]" defaultVal="None">
Role ARN to assume to get access to S3. This field is not required if role-based access is used 
or if AWS access and secret keys are used or if the bucket is public.
</Expandable>


#### Bucket Parameters
<Expandable title="bucket" type="str">
The name of the S3 bucket where the data files have to be sinked.
</Expandable>

<Expandable title="prefix" type="Optional[str]" defaultVal="None">
The prefix of the bucket (as relative path within bucket) where the data files
should be sinked. For instance, `some-folder/` or `A/B/C` are all valid prefixes. Prefix
can not have any wildcard characters.
</Expandable>

<Expandable title="format" type="str" defaultVal="csv">
The format of the files you'd like to sink. Valid values are "csv", "parquet", 
"json", ["delta"](/api-reference/source_connectors/deltalake) or ["hudi"](/api-reference/source_connectors/hudi).
</Expandable>

<Expandable title="delimiter" type="Optional[str]" defaultVal=",">
The character delimiting individual cells in the CSV data - only relevant when
format is `CSV`, otherwise it's ignored.

The default value is `","` can be overridden by any other 1-character string. For 
example, to use tab-delimited data enter `"\t"`.  
</Expandable>

<pre snippet="api-reference/sinks/s3_sink#basic"
    status="success" message="S3 sink">
</pre>

#### Errors
<Expandable title="Connectivity or authentication errors">
Fennel server try to do some lightweight operations on the bucket during the commit
operation - all connectivity or authentication related errors should be caught
during the commit itself.

Note: Mock client can not talk to any external data sink and hence is unable to
do this validation at commit time.
</Expandable>

#### Enabling IAM Access
Fennel creates a role with name prefixed by `FennelDataAccessRole-` in 
your AWS account for role-based access. In order to use IAM access for S3, please
ensure that this role has access to read and do list files on the buckets of 
interest. 

With that ready, simply don't specify `aws_access_key_id` and 
`aws_secret_access_key` and Fennel will automatically fall back to IAM based 
access.

In case you do not want to provide S3 access to `FennelDataAccessRole-`, pass `role_arn`
parameter inside connector params and make sure `FennelDataAccessRole-` can assume that IAM role

:::info
- Fennel appends a generated suffix to the above provided prefix to avoid ambiguities when the 
sink dataset version is updated or when multiple branches have the same sink defined. This suffix
can be found in the 'Sink' tab of the console after initiating a data sink.
- Fennel supports S3 sink with only delta format and access to S3 through `FennelDataAccessRole-`.
In case you require support for other formats or access mechanisms, please reach out to Fennel support
:::

